Frecuently Asked Questions for CDCollect

What are information plugins?

Information plugins are external programs that CDCollect calls for specific
mime types. The text output of the external program is associated as metadata
information for the imported file of the CD/DVD.

How can I create new information plugins?

Go to Edit/Plugins menu item and then click on the Information tab. Click on
the Add button and introduce all needed information for the plugin:

  • Mime: mime-type of the information plugin. Files with this mime type will
    be associated with the plugin. (To see a file mime-type type this on a
    terminal "file -i name_on_disk")
  • Program: Path of the information plugin program. The output of this program
    will be associated to the imported file.
  • Arguments: Arguments to the information plugin. At least you should use:
      □ The string "{0}" to be replaced for the input filename

What are compression plugins?

Compression plugins are external programs that CDCollect calls for specific
mime types. The external program will be run to uncompressed the contents of
the file and they will be added to the CDCollect database when importing a CD/
DVD.

How can I create new compression plugins?

Go to Edit/Plugins menu item and then click on the Compression tab. Click on
the Add button and introduce all needed information for the plugin:

  • Mime: mime-type of the compression plugin. Files with this mime type will
    be uncompressed and contents will be added to the CD/DVD. (To see a file
    mime-type type this on a terminal "file -i name_on_disk")
  • Program: Path of the compression plugin program.
  • Arguments: Arguments to the information plugin. At least you should use:
      □ The string "{0}" to be replaced for the input filename
      □ The string "{1}" to be replaced by the temporal directory to
        uncompressed files

How can I convert my database from SQLITE version 2.8 to 3?

CDCollect 0.6.0 uses sqlite3 as the internal database format. To convert your
existing database to the new format follow this simple steps:

  • Install both sqlite command-line tools for version 2.8 and 3
      □ In debian/ubuntu install packages 'sqlite' and 'sqlite3'
      □ In fedora install packages (any fedora users using cdcollect???)
      □ In suse install packages (any suse users using cdcollect??)
  • Open a console terminal and type the following commands:
      □ cd $HOME/.gnome2/cdcollect
      □ cp cds.db cds.db_backup
      □ sqlite cds.db .dump | sqlite3 cds3.db
      □ rm cds.db
  • That's it, open CDCollect and enjoy! For more information please visit
    sqlite homepage in section 'New File Formar'.


Last Modified: Fri, 24th Nov, 2006. Send any comments to jrhbcn@gmail.com.
